Dear {}, 

I am writing to you today because I am interested in applying for the position of {} as posted on {}. I have worked for years using just about every variant of SQL to query, store, and transform data. I am self taught in R, Python, and Ruby and can perform a myriad of tasks including predictive modeling, machine learning algorithms, web scraping, data extraction, ETL processes, and ETL automation. Though my academic background may not appear to be in line with the job description, I assure you that my professional experience and unique point of view make me an ideal candidate for this position and an asset to your team. 

In my most recent position, I have focused more on strictly ETL related technologies and frameworks including Spark, Hadoop, and AWS services. One of my professional goals is to become a master of everything Spark, whether it be through the Java API, PySpark, SparkR, or even raw Scala. In an effort to become better acquainted with all of these approaches, I built a functioning Hadoop cluster from the ground up out of Raspberry Pis which I use to run Spark remotely. The process was not simple, however I learned from my mistakes and am all the much wiser for it.

My biggest contribution, in any position at any company, is to work with a team to build scalable workflows that can be easily automated. At the Boston Area Research Initiative, I built automated web scrapers to help shape policy decisions at a state level. At the City of Boston I engineered an email notification system using the G-Suite API and stable data extraction tools between Windows and Linux servers. At Panalgo I contributed to an ongoing automation effort, identified heretofore unaddressed workflow bottlenecks and created new solutions to minimize their impact on the ETL proccess. My efforts here allowed us to simplify the ETL process across different data types and make the whole system more modular and, most importantly, easy to learn for new hires.

I could go on, but I feel an in person meeting would do more justice and allow me to learn more about {}, and the intricacies of the {} role. I look forward to speaking with you soon.

